# TL;DR Setup Guide #

If you've used Azure before, this short guide to the Botscaffold generator will get you going quickly. It shows how to:

- Create a Web App in Azure to host your Bot
- Create a Bot at botframework.com
- Configure App Insights on the Azure portal
- Create a LUIS instance
- Enter some environment variables in the Azure portal
- Customize the framework generated by Botscaffold, and publish it to GitHub
- Configure the Web App to pull your code from GitHub

The [complete Setup Guide](SetupGuide.md) provides much more detail and screen shots - look there if you need more context. 

## Sign into Azure ##
- [https://portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com)

## Create a Web App in Azure to host your Bot ##
- As you're creating the web app, choose **On** for **App Insights**
- Copy/paste your **Web App URL** into the text file, and save it (OUTSIDE your code directory).
- Change the protocol to **https**, and add **/api/messages** to the end of the URL.
- Save this info, it will be your Bot's messaging endpoint

## Create a Bot at botframework.com ##
- Go to [https://dev.botframework.com](https://dev.botframework.com) and sign in
- Create a new Bot under **My Bots**
- Fill in the form to create your Bot
- Copy/paste your **App Password** and **App ID** into the text file, and save it.

## Configure App Insights on the Azure portal ##
- On the Azure portal, configure **App Insights**
- Paste the **App Insights Instrumentation Key** into the text file, and save it.

## Create a LUIS instance ##
- Go to [https://luis.ai](https://luis.ai/) and sign in
- Create a new LUIS model
- Create some intents called *Greeting*, *Help* and *AboutTheBot* (case is important, and you need to make all three)
- Train, save and publish your model
- Paste the **Endpoint url** into the text file, and save it.

## Enter details in the Botscaffold Generator ##
You  have all the details you need. Enter the following into the Botscaffold generator:

- App ID
- App Password
- App Insights Instrumentation Key
- LUIS endpoint url

The generator will create your app.

## Enter some environment variables in the Azure portal ##
Go to your Web App on the Azure portal

In **Application Settings** tab, enter the following Key/Value pairs under the APPINSIGHTS_INSTRUMENTATIONKEY that has already been created:

- MY_APP_ID
- MY_APP_PASSWORD
- MY_LUIS_MODEL 

You should have the values needed in the text file you updated as you went along, but they're in your .vscode\launch.json file, if you need to look them up. 

## Customize the framework generated by Botscaffold, and publish it to GitHub ##
- Change the functionality of your bot locally by editing **app.js** as needed
- Go to [GitHub](https://github.com) and create a new repo, with no initial README and no .gitignore
- cd to your local code, and enter these commands: 

```
git init
git add .
git commit -m "first commit"
git remote add origin <your git repo url>
git push -u origin master
```

## Configure the Web App to pull your code from GitHub ##
- In the Azure portal, select the **Deployment Options** tab
- Choose **GitHub** as your source, and enter the required settings.
- Any change you push to GitHub will now automatically deploy to Azure

## Test your Bot running on Azure ##
- Open the **Bot Framework Emulator**
- Enter your Azure messaging endpoint, **App ID** and **App Password** and begin testing

## Connect your Bot to additional channels ##
- Now your Bot is up and running, return to [https://dev.botframework.com](https://dev.botframework.com) and configure more channels for it to talk on. 
